
=head1 NAME

portia.conf - portia configuration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  /etc/portia/ and ~/.portia/
    -> portia.conf and portia.conf.d/
    -> sources.conf and sources.conf.d/
    -> portia.preload

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Portia uses a combination of Bash eval'able and YAML files for configuration.

B<portia.conf> and any files in B<portia.conf.d> are sourced are shell scripts.
Any variables created or modified in these scripts are automatically exported.

=head2 Order of Evaluation

=over 4

=item 1. B<Core Variables>

=item 2. B<portia.preload>

=item 3. B<portia.conf> and B<portia.conf.d>

=back


=head1 VARIABLES

=head2 Pre-Execution Variables

Pre-execution variables are set by portia before any script is executed.
They can only be modified using the B<--set KEY=VALUE> option on the command line
or by exporting the environment variable before portia is executed.

=over 4 

=item B<PORTIA_ROOT>

The root directory used to calculate the default location of Portia components.
The default value is one directory up from the absolute path of the Portia binary.
(absolute path = path with all symlinks resolved)

Perl Source:
    use Cwd qw( abs_path );
    use FindBin qw( $RealBin );
    $ENV{PORTIA_ROOT} ||= abs_path("$RealBin/..");

=back

=head2 System Variables

=over 4

=item B<OS_TYPE> - operating system type

Perl Source:
    use Config;
    $ENV{OS_NAME} = $Config{osname};

=item B<OS_DIST> - operating system distribution

=item B<OS_VERSION> - operating system version

=item B<HW_ARCH> - hardware architecture

Portia uses a number of methods in attempt to divine these values
depending on which operating system is installed.

For unsupported operating systems these values are unpredictable, so it is
advisable to run C<portia --dumpconfig> on your system to view these values
and determine whether you will need to override them.


=back

=head2 User Variables

All user variables are set before any configuration files are sourced.
The following is a list of defaults for each variable:

    ETC_PATH       $PORTIA_ROOT/etc/portia:$HOME/.portia
    PACKAGE_PATH   $PORTIA_ROOT/var/lib/portia/packages:$HOME/.portia/packages
    TMP_DIR        $PORTIA_ROOT/var/tmp
    WORK_DIR       $PORTIA_ROOT/var/tmp/portia
    DISTFILES_DIR  $PORTIA_ROOT/var/lib/portia/distfiles
    INSTALL_ROOT   $PORTIA_ROOT

=over 4

=item B<ETC_PATH> - configuration file path

This is a colon-separated list of directories Portia uses to find its configuration files.

To override this value, you must create a file named C<portia.preload> in the
default path and set a new value in that file.
Portia will search the default path in reverse order to find preload files.
If a preload file is found, it will source that file, stop looking for
additional preload files and continue normal processing.

=item B<PACKAGE_PATH> - package repository path

A colon-separated list of directories Portia searches for package repositories.

=item B<DISTFILES_DIR> - location for depositing compiled binaries

The default location Portia deposits binaries.
Note that this is not the path Portia uses to search for binaries to install.

=item B<TMP_DIR> - temporary directory

=item B<WORK_DIR> - working directory

By default, WORK_DIR is under TMP_DIR.
These are the directories portia uses for compiling and pre-installing binaries.
Be sure these locations have enough disk space to accomodate the tasks or
redefine them to a location that does.

=item B<INSTALL_ROOT> - root directory where packages will be installed

=back

=head1 TODO, KNOWN ISSUES AND BUGS

=over 4

=item B<TODO: Bash Function To Write>

B<osMatch> - string matching routine for OS

B<perlConfig($VAR, 'KEY')> - sets $VAR to Perl's $Config{'KEY'}

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Ingmar Ellenberger.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2001-2012, Ingmar Ellenberger and distributed under The Artistic License.
For the text the license, see L<https://github.com/iellenberger/itools/blob/master/LICENSE>
or read the F<LICENSE> in the root of the iTools distribution.

=head1 SEE ALSO

portia(1),
Portia::Config(3pm),
FindBin(3pm),
Config(3pm),

=cut


